The second section of the project,
we'll look at actually connecting to our read replica,
demonstrating that it is read only,
and then look at actually how to promote
that database to actually be usable for read and write from your applications.
So in order to do this, you want to make sure that you're going to your secondary region.
In this case, this would be my North California region.
You select your database.
So you're going to want to launch an EC2 instance,
and that EC2 instance,
you're going to launch it,
install the MySQL client,
connect to your database,
and then you'll go and try to run some commands.
So if you try to insert data,
you should get a message from the database saying that you're
not allowed to do that because it is a read-only database.
Then what we're going to do is go through the exercise of actually
promoting that database to be a full-fledged database,
not just a replica.
So when you want to do that,
you'll go and you'll find your read replica as you can see that we have here.
You'll select that read replica,
and then simply under actions,
you'll see one of your options is to promote.
So you go through this promote process which breaks
the replication and creates your standalone database.
So after you do that, after that process kicks off and completes,
then you'll again connect to the database and then demonstrate that you can read
and write to that new database that is promoted from being a read replica.